<<<<<<< HEAD
<img src="main-content/personas/../media/BGS-Logo-Pos-RGB.svg" class="bgs-logo">
=======
<img src="../media/BGS-Logo-Pos-RGB.svg" class="bgs-logo">
>>>>>>> c97628503931c9bbda7d3c21d103b9a41a0ee177

# Pilot Area Persona -- Northern Ireland

**Darren Beriro and Tom Fletcher**

This document summarises a collective understanding of the National Land
Data Programme (NLDP) Northern Ireland (NI) pilot area. It introduces
the pilot area partners and provides an outline of their progress,
ambitions, risks and opportunities in the context of the NLDP.

**Who is working on the pilot area project?**

The Northern Ireland pilot area is being led by [[Ordnance Survey
Northern
Ireland]{.ul}](https://www.nidirect.gov.uk/campaigns/ordnance-survey-of-northern-ireland)
(OSNI), a NI Government body that is part of Land and Property Services
in the Department of Finance.

OSNI is the official mapping agency of NI, producing a wide range of
digital and paper maps, available commercially for public and private
end users.

Key contacts and roles for OSNI include:

-   Kathryn Weir, Innovation Manager
-   Ken Stewart, Deputy Chief Survey Officer: Survey Infrastructure
    Development
-   Donna Hardy, Executive Assistant to Partners

**Who are the local partners?**

OSNI work with a large number of local partners in the Government,
public and private sector. Partners are data owners and end users.
Involved will be limited to a small number of theses including
Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA) and
local governments councils (LGCs).

**What problems are planned to be addressed during the NLDP?**

-   Data and information of consistent coverage and sufficient
    resolution on land cover and land use classification is not widely
    available in NI;

-   Land use and land cover data are not held in one place, rather they
    are often held by multiple owners with mixed interests;

-   Data gaps exist on the classification of land cover and land use;

-   High resolution land cover and land use data is required by DAERA
    and LGCs;

-   Disparities in land cover and land use data quality held by
    country's eleven different LGCs;

-   Reluctance to share data with OSNI based on concerns over where it
    might lead;

-   Uncertainties about how to approach stakeholder analysis and user
    requirements gathering.

**What does success look like for OSNI?**

Within the duration of the NLDP, OSNI plan to produce a prototype high
resolution land cover and land use map for Londonderry and Strabane. The
areas are located in the north west provide good examples of dense urban
and sparsely populated rural areas with a wide variety of land uses.
This digital land cover and land use map is planned to be scalable to
the whole of NI.

The land cover and land use map will use OSNI's existing object boundary
map for land parcels available in OS Fusion. The land cover and land use
classifications will be based on the [[National Land Use Classification
of land use and land cover (Version 4.4)
(2006)]{.ul}](https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/national-land-use-database-land-use-and-land-cover-classification).
The project would build significantly on its existing free to use
spatial data platform, [[Spatial
NI]{.ul}](https://www.spatialni.gov.uk/).

Data creation will primarily be generated by integrating existing
authoritative data sets. Where existing data is unavailable, the land
cover will be determined using remote sensing techniques (e.g. Intensity
Hue saturation from satellite and aerial imagery), which OSNI has
already piloted.

The land cover and land use map will directly support the work of DAERA
on the NI Executive's first ever Climate Change Bill with applications
of the map include reduced carbon emissions and green growth
initiatives.

**Risks and opportunities**

-   Potential conflict between commercial products e.g. OS Fusion and
    new land cover and land use map

-   Lack of data sharing between stakeholders and OSNI

-   Timescales for engagement

-   Experience characterising and publishing historic land use map

-   Identified techniques and datasets for current land use
    categorisation

**\<\<END>\>**

<div class="image-container">

<a id="wm"></a>

![BGS Logo](./media/BGS-Logo-Pos-RGB.svg)

</div>


