# Personas

## Locations
>*	[Devon](#devon)
>*	[Northern Ireland](#ni)
>*	[West Midlands](#wm)

## Outputs
<div class="image-container">

<a id="devon"></a>

![BGS Logo](./media/image1.png)

</div>

### Pilot Area Persona -- Devon

**Tom Fletcher and Darren Beriro**

This document summarises a collective understanding of the National Land
Data Programme (NLDP) Devon pilot area. It introduces the pilot area
partners and provides an outline of their progress, ambitions, risks and
opportunities in the context of the NLDP.

**Who is working on the pilot area project?**

The Devon pilot area is being led by [Food, Farming and Countryside
Commission](https://ffcc.co.uk/) (FFCC), a UK wide charity funded
primarily by the Esm√©e Fairbairn Foundation and founded by the Royal
Society for Arts.

FFCC has a mission to have a positive impact on our climate, nature,
health and economy through actions, informed by conversations with a
variety of public and private stakeholders including land owners,
farmers, local communities, Government and academia. The FFCC
[board](https://ffcc.co.uk/our-people/board) and team of
[commissioner](https://ffcc.co.uk/our-people/commissioners)s is
comprises highly influential individuals who represent a range of
sustainable food and farming interests.

The outcome of their first report, [Our future in the
land](https://ffcc.co.uk/library/our-future-in-the-land), provided the
mandate to create a national [Land Use
Framework](https://ffcc.co.uk/what-we-do/land-use-framework) for
England. This framework aims to deliver integrated, collaborative and
place-based decision making and to optimise multifunctional benefits
from our land. Another key outcome was identifying the need for local
and community-based flood resilience measures and the need to integrate
these in other land planning decisions.

The Land Use Framework is part of the NLDP but also part of the a large
regional initiative called the [Flood and Coastal Resilience Innovation
Programme](https://www.devon.gov.uk/floodriskmanagement/flood-and-coastal-resilience-innovation-programme-fcrip/)
(FCRIP). The FCRIP is funded through the Environment Agency and led by
Devon County Council. It aims to enable local stakeholders to identify
and implement lost cost flood adaptation and resilience measures.

Key contacts and roles for FFCC include:
-   Alison Caffyn, Senior Researcher: Land Use
-   Tom Burston, Director of Policy and Research
-   Nick Paling, Project Manager, Westcountry Rivers Trust
-   Sarah Wigley, Westcountry Rivers Trust
-   Data specialist to be recruited at Environment Agency, working with
    Tom Dauben, Flood & Coastal Risk Management Senior Advisor

**Who are the local partners?**

FFCC work with a number of partners in the Devon pilot area data owners
and users, decision-makers and impacted parties e.g. Westcountry Rivers
Trust, Environment Agency, Devon Communities Together, Local
Authorities, National Parks and AONBs, National Trust, National Farmers
Union etc. Each organisation is invested in improving land use decision
taking to address the current crises in climate and nature and help
transition towards more sustainable farming systems. They are interested
in how the developing a Devon Land Use Framework will deliver more
resilient and adaptive land use decision-making.

**What problems are planned to be addressed during the NLDP?**

-   Currently, land use decision making across England is fragmented.
    There is a historic divide between landowners making decisions
    about their future land use and management and the planning system
    which addresses housing, industry and infrastructure type
    development.

-   Land use guidance and data is also fragmented and often conflicting
    across governmental departments e.g. between planning for nature
    and the environment, for agriculture, for housing and for
    economic, infrastructure, energy, defence developments.

-   Land use decisions often do not take into account the same factors,
    use the same data sources or consider neighbouring land uses.

-   A framework for would help decision makers use the same principles
    and take a more strategic approach to work towards government
    targets.

-   Some critical factors are not currently taken into account when
    making a land use decision such as the need to sustainably feed
    ourselves and the links between urban and rural areas.

-   The wider impact of land use decisions is not always considered,
    e.g. draining a field can increase the damage caused by flooding
    in an adjacent area.

**What does success look like for FFCC?**

Within the duration of the NLDP, FFCC plans to co-produce a land use
framework in partnership with many local stakeholders. This will include
improving the awareness, availability and usage of key land data to
enrich decision taking. Success would be producing a Devon Land Use
Framework, which has been found to be helpful to multiple land use
decision makers and which local authorities and other organisations and
landowners are interested in adopting into their ongoing planning
processes. There may within the same timeframe be serious interest from
national government for a cross departmental approach on implementing
such a framework for national land use decision making and processes.

The NLDP will enable this by creating a working prototype Land Data
Platform which the framework can reference directly as the go to
location for land use data around a set of specific use cases.

Gathering insight into the data used to make planning decisions
including housing, food, farming, flooding and surrounding land use will
be a key part of the framework. It will also include guidance on key
engagements within the community which should be undertaken when making
decisions.

**Risks and opportunities**

-   A framework that could be adopted in policy

-   Timescales for becoming fully resourced

-   Securing engagement within a suitable timeframe

-   Well-connected and experienced in engaging with LGCs

**\<\<END>\>**

<div class="image-container">

<a id="ni"></a>

![BGS Logo](./media/image1.png)

</div>

### Pilot Area Persona -- Northern Ireland

**Darren Beriro and Tom Fletcher**

This document summarises a collective understanding of the National Land
Data Programme (NLDP) Northern Ireland (NI) pilot area. It introduces
the pilot area partners and provides an outline of their progress,
ambitions, risks and opportunities in the context of the NLDP.

**Who is working on the pilot area project?**

The Northern Ireland pilot area is being led by [[Ordnance Survey
Northern
Ireland]{.ul}](https://www.nidirect.gov.uk/campaigns/ordnance-survey-of-northern-ireland)
(OSNI), a NI Government body that is part of Land and Property Services
in the Department of Finance.

OSNI is the official mapping agency of NI, producing a wide range of
digital and paper maps, available commercially for public and private
end users.

Key contacts and roles for OSNI include:

-   Kathryn Weir, Innovation Manager
-   Ken Stewart, Deputy Chief Survey Officer: Survey Infrastructure
    Development
-   Donna Hardy, Executive Assistant to Partners

**Who are the local partners?**

OSNI work with a large number of local partners in the Government,
public and private sector. Partners are data owners and end users.
Involved will be limited to a small number of theses including
Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA) and
local governments councils (LGCs).

**What problems are planned to be addressed during the NLDP?**

-   Data and information of consistent coverage and sufficient
    resolution on land cover and land use classification is not widely
    available in NI;

-   Land use and land cover data are not held in one place, rather they
    are often held by multiple owners with mixed interests;

-   Data gaps exist on the classification of land cover and land use;

-   High resolution land cover and land use data is required by DAERA
    and LGCs;

-   Disparities in land cover and land use data quality held by
    country's eleven different LGCs;

-   Reluctance to share data with OSNI based on concerns over where it
    might lead;

-   Uncertainties about how to approach stakeholder analysis and user
    requirements gathering.

**What does success look like for OSNI?**

Within the duration of the NLDP, OSNI plan to produce a prototype high
resolution land cover and land use map for Londonderry and Strabane. The
areas are located in the north west provide good examples of dense urban
and sparsely populated rural areas with a wide variety of land uses.
This digital land cover and land use map is planned to be scalable to
the whole of NI.

The land cover and land use map will use OSNI's existing object boundary
map for land parcels available in OS Fusion. The land cover and land use
classifications will be based on the [[National Land Use Classification
of land use and land cover (Version 4.4)
(2006)]{.ul}](https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/national-land-use-database-land-use-and-land-cover-classification).
The project would build significantly on its existing free to use
spatial data platform, [[Spatial
NI]{.ul}](https://www.spatialni.gov.uk/).

Data creation will primarily be generated by integrating existing
authoritative data sets. Where existing data is unavailable, the land
cover will be determined using remote sensing techniques (e.g. Intensity
Hue saturation from satellite and aerial imagery), which OSNI has
already piloted.

The land cover and land use map will directly support the work of DAERA
on the NI Executive's first ever Climate Change Bill with applications
of the map include reduced carbon emissions and green growth
initiatives.

**Risks and opportunities**

-   Potential conflict between commercial products e.g. OS Fusion and
    new land cover and land use map

-   Lack of data sharing between stakeholders and OSNI

-   Timescales for engagement

-   Experience characterising and publishing historic land use map

-   Identified techniques and datasets for current land use
    categorisation

**\<\<END>\>**

<div class="image-container">

<a id="wm"></a>

![BGS Logo](./media/image1.png)

</div>

### Pilot Area Persona -- West Midlands

**Darren Beriro and Tom Fletcher**

This document summarises a collective understanding of the National Land
Data Programme (NLDP) West Midlands (WM) pilot area. It introduces the
pilot area partners and provides an outline of their progress, challenge
areas, goals, risks and opportunities.

**Who is working on the pilot area project?**

The West Midlands pilot area is being led by the West Midlands Combined
Authority (WMCA) and Transport for West Midlands (TfWM), a devolved
mayoral Combined Authority and embedded transport body. WMCA is made up
of eleven local councils and three local enterprise partnerships (LEPs).
It is responsible for strategic oversight of transport, housing, green
space, education, employment, fair and inclusive communities and climate
change in the region. WMCA is funded by and has direct accountability to
the central Government.

Key contacts and roles for WMCA include:

-   Stuart Lester, Data and Innovation Lead (TfWM)
-   Jacqueline Homan, Head of Environment (WMCA)
-   Jemma Hodgson, Strategic Assets Manager (WMCA)
-   John O'Kane, Asset Management Development Officer (WMCA)
-   TBC, Data analyst(?)

**Who are the local partners?**

WMCA and TfWM work most closely with the seven voting member Local
Authorities (Birmingham City Council, City of Wolverhampton Council,
Coventry City Council, Dudley Metropolitan Borough Council, Sandwell
Metropolitan Borough Council, Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council and
Walsall). WMCA also works in partnership with a further four local
councils and three LEPs. WMCA also has good working relationships with
adjacent councils not part of the Combined Authority under their Duty to
Cooperate. WMCA and TfWM are well connected with a range of wider
stakeholders in the region.

**What problems are planned to be addressed during the NLDP?**

-   Making data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable (FAIR)
    for transport planning/ modelling and early-stage strategic land use
    planning

-   Improving understanding of land ownership for early stage strategic
    planning

-   Coupling planning data with land ownership data for UPRNs and other
    relevant land parcels

-   How to record and report windfall sites in housing needs assessments
    and Strategic Housing Land Availability Assessments

-   How best to adapt, extend, enhance and maintain data schema for the
    above problems

-   Use of novel data proxies e.g. waste bin registrations, to monitor
    housing build out rate

-   How to enhance the awareness and impact of TfWM in the wider
    planning role of WMCA

-   How to enhance maintain and enhance the value to all parties of the
    Duty to Cooperate requirements

-   How to create unified data quality through standardised schema or
    data model

**What does success look like for WMCA?**

Within the duration of the NLDP, WMCA would like to develop a working
prototype West Midland Land Use Platform with a strong set of use cases
to embed this into data-driven decision making in the CA.

The focus of the platform is on transport, housing and brownfield use
cases and integrating data currently available on separate systems e.g.
planning applications and the WM land and property gazetteer. Some
initial user research has been conducted, which will be made available
to the NLDP. Key features of the West Midlands Land Use Platform would
include:

-   Data platform for early-stage land use planning viability
    assessments

-   Maintained land ownership register

-   Planning to completion housing build outs

-   Unified data schema for WM

It is expected that the NLDP will focus on a current use case/
demonstrator orientated around master planning and regeneration of dense
urban areas e.g. the redevelopment of Bilston market in Wolverhampton.
This would permit testing how decisions (past, present and future) may
be influenced by the NLDP and West Midlands Land Use Platform.

**Risks and opportunities**

-   WMCA wide + extended partners data sharing agreements

-   Reticence to share some data by certain LPAs especially where it
    relates to a strong green belt lobby

-   LA legal team push back affects collaboration in some cases

-   Capacity issues due to large scale infrastructure projects e.g. HS2
    and Commonwealth Games 2022 (and 5G project?)

-   Skills shortage in WM due to digital personnel drain from WMCA to
    private sector

-   Separate data management systems e.g. planning records, transport
    and land ownership need to made interoperable

-   Longer term ¬£1b settlement received by WMCA meaning secure reliable
    funding

-   Approaches to digital planning by GLA and GMCA can inform good
    practice for WM

**\<\<END>\>**
